# Class 01 exercises

In this class we will learn how to transcribe data from a scientific research paper into a format we can work with. Since this is the first class, we will do it the hard way - manually. Don't worry, this is only an example, it's small, and you won't have to do it often (hopefully!).

Consider the following research paper: [RESPONSES OF DIATOM COMMUNITIES TO HEAVY METALS IN STREAMS: THE INFLUENCE OF LONGITUDINAL VARIATION][1]. It is a paper about how diatom communities respond to heavy metal concentration in their environment.


## 1. Data gathering

1. Find the data tables in the paper, and carefully read *Table 2*, "Physicochemical characteristics and diatom community variables from the six metal-polluted streams in August 1992".
2. Open a spreadsheet software of your choice (*MS Excel*, *Libreoffice Calc*, *Google spreadsheets*, etc.) and recreate the table from (**1.**) there. You may discard **abiotic** variables. Make sure all samples can be easily identified.

*Hint* - Pay special attention to the following:

* Columns should be named
* Rows should be named
* The river name should be a variable too
* **Do not use** `whitespace`, `accentures` etc... in these names


## 2. Basic data analyses

1. Describe the data you have:
 * Sample size
 * Number of variables
2. Calculate for each variable (total and per stream):
 * Minimum value
 * Maximum value
 * Average value
 * Standard deviation value
3. Plot the values of each variable in whatever way you see fit to describe them
4. Extra challenge:
 * Can you get the 'Diversity H'' value of each station whose 'Species Richness' is above 30?


## Future proofing

1. Export your data (and only the data, not the calculated values) in `.csv` or `.tsv` format.

[1]: https://doi.org/10.1890/1051-0761(1998)008[0631:RODCTH]2.0.CO;2
