# Class 6 exercises

Once again, the first thing to do is download the data we are about to use. In this case it is a data table with the colours and size categories of "Magic beans".

Link 1 - [Magic beans data](https://gitlab.com/StuntsPT/bp2018/raw/master/docs/classes/exercises/Magic_beans.csv).

1. Take a look at the data using any spreadsheet software (this time it should be quick). Or just look at it directly in R if yo are already comfortable with it. **The important thing is that you understand what data is contained in the file**.

## 1. Data loading, basic statistics and plots

1. Load the data from the above provided URL into R. Variable names are up to you from now on. But please, make them *descriptive*. Your future you will thank you.

2. Make a bar plot of the size distribution. Make sure the bar widths match the size category.
Hint: check out the `table()` function for category counting.

3. Make a bar plot of the colour distribution. Ensure the colours match.

## 2. Hypothesis tests

1. All colours of "Magic beans" are supposed to be produced in equal proportions. What does the data suggest? Perform a tests to assess this. Describe H<sub>0</sub>.

2. Since H<sub>0</sub> was rejected in (1), test which colour(s) is (are) out of proportion.

3. Consider only <font color="red">red</font> magic beans. Are size categories equally distributed?
Hint: Check out th North vs. South rivers example for ideas on how to filter your data.

4. Does the colour of the bean influence its size? Or are size and colour independent? Describe H<sub>0</sub>.

5. A spy droid controlled by the rebel alliance has infiltrated an imperial star destroyer class ship. In order to avoid detection, it dodged all contact with resident troopers, but was nevertheless caught and destroyed. Before destruction, however it was able to transmit information from the equipment room it passed through. It counted several battle gear packages that included "TIE fighter pilot gear" (`89` packages), "Storm trooper armor" (`322` packages), "AT-AT crew helmets" (`16` packages). Past intelligence has shown that imperial star destroyers ready for ground strikes normally carry a proportion of `5` "TIE Fighters" for every "AT-AT walker" and for every squad of `15` "Storm troopers". If the number of "TIE fighters" is much higher than this, an air strike should be expected instead. Based on what the spy droid transmitted, should the resistance base prepare themselves for an air, or for a ground attack?

## 3. Regression analysis

1. R has some built in data that we can use. Let's look at the dataset "faithful". There are two observation variables in the data set. The first one, called eruptions, is the duration of the geyser eruptions. The second one, called waiting, is the length of waiting period until the next eruption.
Draw a correlation plot based on this data.

2. What is the strength of the correlation? Is it significant? (consider alpha=0.05)

3. Draw a regression line in the plot.
