# Class 9 exercises

Now is time to wrap up and really get R going.

## 1. Functions and control flow

Before using external data, let's start with "simpler" R internals.

1. Create a function that takes a single (numeric) argument and returns the provided value multiplied by 2. Demonstrate that it works with by printing the results returned when providing the values `9` and `6.5` as arguments.

2. Create a function that takes two arguments - a *p*-value and an alpha value, compares them and returns text saying whether H<sub>0</sub> is to be rejected or not. Demonstrate that it work as intended by calling the function **twice**, each time returning one of the possible outcomes.

3. Create a function that takes a `vector` with "words" as an argument and returns each word twice in the same line. Eg. if you provide the vector `c("one", "two", "three")` your function should return something similar to:

```
"one one"
"two two"
"three three"
```

Hint: Use the `paste()` function - `paste(word1, word2, sep=" ")`.
Hint2: There are may ways to go about this, but try uing a `for` loop inside a function.


## 2. Automation & Reproducibility - hypothesis tests

**General hint:** It is generally a good idea to load data that will be used often as a *global variable* - which is opposite to a *private variable* that only lives inside a function.

1. Remember the exercises from **class #5**? Automate exercise **2.1**.
*Hint*: Create a function that takes the alpha value, men's cholesterol levels and women's cholesterol levels as arguments, and returns the *p*-values. Call the function 4 times using a for loop that iterates through a vector with the years of interest.

2. Do the same exercise again, but this time, with the years "1983", "1992", "1998", "2003" and "2005". Can you think of a way to easily repeat this analysis?
*Hint*: Functions can call other functions, just in case you had forgotten.

3. Are the conclusions reached with the data from **2.1** the same as those reached in **2.2**?


## 3. Automation & Reproducibility - regression

Link 1 - [Diatoms data](https://gitlab.com/StuntsPT/bp2019/raw/master/docs/classes/C05_assets/Dados_diatoms_heavymetals.csv)

1. Remember the diatoms data. Is the *Zn* concentration correlated with the "Species Diversity" value? Draw the correlation plot with a regression line **and automatically save it as a file**. Do it inside a function (return the *p*-value and R²).
*Hint*: Provide the filename, *ylab* and *xlab* as arguments in addition to the data.

2. Now use your function to do the same for *Zn* concentration Vs. "Species Richness".
