# Bonus exercises

Welcome back! Let's try to place a bit of everything in here.
For your convenience, please answer each section in a separate R script.
Make sure you flush your variables and restart R between switching files.
You will have to do this for your exam anyway.

**Read everything before you start solving your exercises!**


## 1. Hypothesis tests

1. Go back to [Exercises 5](ex05.html), and the plots of 1.3. Write a function that draws the requested plot (mean and median).
This function will have to:
* Be able to draw the plots for both men and women
* Save the plot as a *png* or *JPEG* image automatically (and the location to save the file has to be chosen when invoking the function)
* Have different labels for the different plots

2. Load the following two datafiles into R: [Number of Malaria cases](http://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/pub?key=pp59adS3CHWczfPHQMiqxCg&output=csv), [Number of Malaria deaths](http://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/pub?key=pp59adS3CHWfZGL9qouvTbQ&output=xlsx).
Is the number of deaths due to malaria different between 2003 and 2005?

3. An incident with plants in a known school's greenhouse that required a very through cleaning is being investigated. Reports indicate that the cause of the issue was an excess of *Mimbulus mimbletonia* specimens growing in the now *stinksap* covered greenhouse. Professor Pomona Sprout has always kept tidy records of the plants in her school's greenhouse, which seem to indicate that a few exemplars of the plant did exist, but not in quantities that could justify the damage caused. Interviewing the students has revealed that one of them (Neville) may have been using the greenhouse to grow his own batch of *Mimbulus mimbletonia*, though. Plants in the greenhouse were quickly sampled (as no one could stand being inside for more than a few seconds) and compared with Sprout's records:

| Plant                | Sprout's record | Counted |
|----------------------|-----------------|---------|
| Goosegrass           | 22              | 7       |
| Mimbulus mimbletoina | 25              | 15      |
| Devil's Snare        | 3               | 1       |
| Venomous Tentacula   | 19              | 6       |
| Witch's ganglion     | 31              | 10      |
| Dirigible plum       | 7               | 2       |
| Aconite              | 55              | 18      |
| Gurdyroot            | 28              | 9       |


Based on this data, can you make a statistically informed assessment regarding the cause of the incident? Define your test's H0.

Hint: This is not as complex as it looks at first.


## 2. Regression & correlation

Once again, load the following two datafiles into R: [Number of Malaria cases](http://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/pub?key=pp59adS3CHWczfPHQMiqxCg&output=csv), [Number of Malaria deaths](http://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/pub?key=pp59adS3CHWfZGL9qouvTbQ&output=xlsx).

1. Are the number of Malaria deaths and cases correlated? Draw the scatter plot, including a regression line. Do not forget to test for normality. Although this exercise is not difficult to understand, keep in mind that it is slightly harder to technically perform than any previous one. Read the next few hints carefully, and go through any documentation/web searches you deem necessary to understand *exactly* what you have to do. **Do not get stressed if this is taking you longer to solve than the others**.

*Hints*: The dataset for "malaria cases" contains data on some counties that are not present in the "malaria deaths" one. You can use the `subset()` function to delete any columns not present on both datasets `malaria_cases = subset(malaria_cases, row.names(malaria_cases) %in% row.names(malaria_deaths))`. Also note that in order to perform the correlation analysis, you should coerce your datasets into matrices using `as.matrix(malaria_deaths)`.

2. Describe H<sub>0</sub> from the previous task.

3. Automate the procedure in **2.1** using a function. Make sure the plot is also drawn automatically and saved to the disk. This function should return the *p*-value of the correlation and the "correlation strength" value in any way you see fit.

4. Draw a trend plot (total cases over time) to help determine if malaria cases are increasing or decreasing worldwide. Do the same for malaria deaths.

*Hints*: If you use a function for this, it will really make your life easier. Also note that since the datasets contain missing data (NA) you should use the argument `na.rm=TRUE` when performing the `sum` function.


## 3. Exploratory data analysis

1. Load [this](https://datastore.landcareresearch.co.nz/dataset/43d27a6e-544a-4134-b19f-12c78e6a5652/resource/aa238833-e9e8-4ac1-8ba7-ae2737e0f7f3/download/april-dvp.csv) datafile into R. It contains plant traits measured for [an ecological study](https://catalogue.data.govt.nz/dataset/plant-trait-and-ecosystem-function-data-from-an-intensively-grazed-grassland). Use this file to plot a PCA. Use the variable "base_grass" as a discriminant.

2. Do the plants group by this discriminant?

3. Which variables seem to be most associated with PC1? What about PC2? Draw the factor loadings plot.

4. How much variance is explained by each of the Principal Components? 


## 4. Automation & Reproducibility

1. Write a function that compares a dataset of values with a single value. The function should take as many arguments as you deem necessary, and return whether there are significant differences between the sample and the value. It should also be able to determine which test to perform (parametric or non-parametric). The alpha value for the parameter testing does not have to be the same as for the sample test (both need to be defined during the function invocation).

